This is kind of a fundamental concept,
and we've been using them without
you necessarily understanding
that they're being used.
So, I eluded to this in the very beginning
when I'm talking about the Unix philosophy
that you have to assume that the output of
any program could be the input to another
program.
And the way that this is accomplish
lead us to things to kinda
like connected together through
something called streams in pipes.
So, you'll have this one
stream of characters and
you'll pipe that into
another stream of characters.
So, a good example of that is,
I'm gonna make another folder.
We'll just call this like streams.
Let me go into streams.
And let's say I have a string of text and
I want that to be output to another file.
What I can do is I can say echo,
this is my text, right?
So, if I say that, right?
This just that outputs it to
the standard out pipe, right?
Or to the stream, the standard out stream.
And if you don't have a stream that goes anywhere,
it eventually just says
I'm just gonna output that to the user,
right?
So that's kind of the terminus.
It's showing that to the user.
But let's say I wanted to put that text into a file.
So I could do that echo "this is my text",
and then if I put 1
and an angle bracket like that,
I'm going to redirect that stream
to another place. Into a new file.
So, now notice first of all,
it didn't output that to my screen so
it never echoed anything.
So, now notice first of all,
it didn't output that to my screen so
it never echoed anything, but
now I have this new-file.txt.
And if I cat that file,
you'll see that my text went into that.
That's pretty cool, right?
So, I'm redirecting that output from
hitting the screen to going into a file.
This is the standard out.
So 1 and then angle bracket,
redirects just standard out.
It doesn't redirect anything else
it just redirect standard out.
So, what happens if I do cat new-file.txt?
But instead of letting that go
to my screen, I redirect that to
another-file.txt, what do you
think that's gonna happen then?
I just copied the file, right?
Like I basically, just did copy.
So, if I cat another file now,
it's this is my text, but I just
redirected that from standard out from
going to the screen into another-file.
So, it's basically,
a poor man's copy, okay?
So, if I do this again,
I have new-file.txt.
But if I put a second angle bracket there,
what it does instead of replacing
the file, it appends to the file, right?
So, now if I look inside
of another-file.txt,
this is my text shows up in there twice.
Whereas if I did it
with just one of these,
It's just once now because
what I actually did is I said,
throw everything out you had
before replace it with new stuff.
So, two of them adds and
one of them replaces.
Okay?
So that is standard out.
Everything that I've shown you so
far is you're
basically redirecting the output of
a file or the output of a program.
And you can do with anything right?
So, I can do ls -lsah, and
I want to redirect that to ls.txt, right?
And now if I go into ls.txt,
it's just the output of that.
Something that's kind of
interesting if I just do cat or
sorry if I do ls into ls.txt,
so if I do ls right now,
it does it this way where it's
just like one file per line.
If there's a directory in there,
it'll actually colorize that for me, but
right now if I cat ls.txt.
Notice that there are new lines, and there
are no color would ever show up here.
That's because a program can
detect that it's being redirected.
And it can actually, like reformat itself
to be more machine friendly, right?
And, so this is a more machine
friendly where it's one file per line.
Just kind of interesting.
So, let's talk about standard error for
just a second.
So, we've been just been looking at
standard out which is like output of
a particular program.
There's another stream that we're
also reading from at the same time
called standard error.
So, let's try this again.
Let's say,
if I say cat non-existent-file.txt,
I get, hey, that thing that you asked for
doesn't exist.
But what happens if I try and redirect
the standard out of that to cat.txt?
Well, notice that I still
see the error message and
nothing went to cat.txt.
Why is that?
Well, we directed standard out,
which is where all the output goes, and
there was no output because
that was not a real file.
It does create the file because it assumes
that stuff is gonna end up going there.
But we still saw the error output come
out here, wherever that was here.
That's because standard out, and
standard error are different.
Standard error is just for
errors and like things like that,
so it's actually frequently useful
to redirect standard out somewhere.
This will be like all of your reporting
and metrics and all that kind of stuff,
maybe for like your server if you're
running a server that way, and
then you can redirect standard.
And it airs somewhere else and
this will be like your airlocks, right?
That's why they kind of
separate those two things out.
So, if I can do this now.
So, instead of being a one here,
I can redirect this to be a two
which is gonna be standard error.
And then all of a sudden
this to error.txt.
So, now I have error.txt,
and if I cat error.txt,
you'll see that the error message
actually ended up going there.
Makes sense.
So, again one angle bracket
redirects standard out,
two angle bracket
redirects standard error.
And yeah, so actually that's a good point
is you can actually do
both at the same time.
So, if I do ls -lsah, like that, and
I can do 1> ls.txt and
I can do, 2> ls -error.txt.
That's frequently all you'll see,
is you'll redirect standard out one
place to redirect standard error,
a different place, and
they just go to the kind of separate ways.
Well, labs that I want him
to go to the same place.
You can actually just leave
the number off like that, and
that will redirect both standard out and
standard error to the same place.
So, unless I am doing something where
I specifically want to separate
the streams I usually just do this, and
I'll just redirect everything to one file.
Keep in mind that the if I
wanted to append to that,
that's how I would do that.
You can also do that with two as well,
where you can append to the error file,
right?
So, the multiple error
brackets always works.
So, let's say I was doing something and
I only cared about the standard out and
I just didn't
care what was happening
in the errors whatsoever.
You can do ls -lsah, and I can just
redirect the errors to /dev/null.
This is a special file here that
basically says, I'm gonna throw it in.
It's just a black hole of stuff in.
Stuff is gonna go into it and
like don't save it, don't care about it.
It's just into oblivion.
So if I did this, if there was any errors,
I wouldn't see them.
And by the same token, if I wanna run a
program and I don't care about the output,
I just want to know if
there was any errors.
Same thing here, I can redirect
standard out to /dev/null and
only errors will show up here.
So, let's see if I did here, cat.
Some file.txt.
I did see the error here and
that's how I know an error happened.
The same thing here, if I change this too,
I'm just not gonna see anything cuz
it's gonna ignore all the errors.
So that's what dev/null is for,
dev/null is specifically for,
I don't care about whatever
is going into here.